the White House has described reports of
mass graves in Gaza as deeply disturbing
European union and the United Nations
have joined international calls for an
independent probe into the situation on
Wednesday another 51 bodies were found
in the grounds of a hospital in Han
Yunis more than 300 have been discovered
since Saturday hospitals have protection
under international law that have come
under heavy Israeli bombardment since
Israel's war on Gaza began in October
US National Security adviser Jake
Sullivan says Washington wants
answers those reports were deeply
disturbing we have been in touch at
multiple levels with the Israeli
government we want answers we want to
understand exactly what happened you've
seen some public commentary from the IDF
on that but we want to know the
specifics of what the circumstances of
this were and we want to see this
thoroughly and transparently
investigated so that the whole world can
have a comprehensive answer and we the
United States can as well I can't speak
beyond that because of course we're in
the early days of fully understanding
what happened we are gravely concerned
by the by the reported discovery of M
graves in KH Yunis and in alifa hospital
this is something that uh forces us to
call for an independent investigation of
all the suspicions and all the
circumstances uh because indeed uh it uh
it creates the the impression that there
might have been violations of
international human rights committee
that's why it's important to have
independent investigation and to ensure
the
accountability Let's cross now to Heidi
Joe Castro who joins us from Washington
DC Heidi some strong words there but
what can we make of what was
said Carrie yeah the condemnation and
the concern expressed by the United
States has been growing since word of
these Mass Graves was first reported and
today we just heard Jake Sullivan the US
National Security advisor saying that
the US wants answers now what we didn't
hear from him though was a call for an
independent investigation and that's
what has deferred the US response to
this thus far from that of the EU and
that of the UN High Commissioner now we
did hear from the US Deputy ambassador
to to the UN who told Al jazer earlier
in the day that the US was not ready to
call for an independent investigation
but rather would be talking to other
countries referencing Israel there as
well well as looking at photographs of
these atrocities these potential
atrocities uh and so there's still quite
a gap between how the US has responded
to this though the rhetoric is ramping
up and that of other world leaders and
Heidi will these words be matched with
action though because these Graves have
been known about for some
time right the US is really leaning on
Israel completing an investigation
withholding judgment and those are the
commonly the reactions we've heard from
the White House whenever Israel is
accused of a war crime here and so
there's really no president to fall back
on that the US has really said that a
line has been crossed or that Israel
would face any repercussions other than
uh the the sanctions on the settlers who
have been attacking Palestinians in the
West Bank but when it comes to Gaza when
it comes to Israel's war on Gaza really
the actions have been the other way
around with president Joe Biden just
today signing into law yet another US
military aid package to
Israel how you Joe Castro for us in
Washington DC thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer